well student-led protests and
encampments against the war in Gaza are
continuing for a second week in the US
they demanding their universities drop
Financial ties to Israel we have a team
of correspondents covering the story for
us in the US in a moment we'll be live
in New York with John hendin and with
Phil lval in Chapel Hill North Carolina
but first let's go to Ellen Fischer who
was at the George Washington University
in Washington DC where students from at
least eight universities have joined a
fourth day of protests and Ellen's
usually uh uh quiet there on campus on a
Sunday but that's certainly not the case
there
today well it it's quiet at the moment
simply because there have been afternoon
prayers and what we saw were people who
are Muslim coming out for the prayers
but also being surrounded by a
protective Cordon of the hundreds of
people that have come here of course
it's the camp behind me that you can see
uh where they set up a camp in the very
early hours of Thursday morning and
they've now been here going into 4 days
joining me live now is Sophie who is one
of the students who was here right at
the start and is still in the camp first
of all Sophie what are conditions like
for for you guys in the camp and in the
tents yeah so right now we've stayed
strong we are barricaded off by Metro
Police and the GW Administration so we
have been told that once we leave we are
not allowed back um so we are stuck with
in half of University yard right now but
we have wonderful tents honestly we have
had so many resources coming in from the
community we have food everyone's been
saying they've been eating the best
they've had in in a while here we have
for the hot weather like many things we
have um a medic tent the administration
is not allowing a medic to actually come
in now um and be there for the students
but we have Medics outside on the
streets with the community
we have just a an amazing amount of
resources inside we've seen from the the
University Administration that they've
suspended some students that they've
threatened others that they could lose
their housing or possibly not even
graduate how big a decision is that for
you when it comes to deciding whether
you stay or whether you go yes
University repression has been just
absolutely horrible but every student in
here is so committed to our demand and
to telling the world that all eyes must
be on Gaza right now and that we are
here for the liberation of the
Palestinian people and what is a
suspension what is a an arrest when
there's a genocide happening we're all
so committed here and I stand alongside
my peers who have been suspended who
have lost their housing their their food
in like their security to food from the
University and everyone here has the
same we're all in it together and
there's just like such an inspiring
bring level of commitment within the
encampment Sophie I know it's not an
easy decision to make uh to come and do
these interviews but we appreciate you
joining us live here in Al this
afternoon thanks very much indeed that's
Sophie who a student one of the we think
about a dozen or so people who are who
are still in the camp here at George
Washington University and all of those
like Sophie are saying they are not
leaving until their demands are met by
the university and people are aware
across the world of what's going on in
Gaza okay thanks so much Ellen Ellen
Fisher for us there at George Washington
University let's stay with the story and
bring in John hendin now who is at City
University in New York and John this
protest site in particular remains under
constant threat of being shut down can
you just explain exactly why that
is okay so what is the
Nar that's right that's part of The New
Normal here these camps are becoming
more or less uh permanent structures you
can see right now there's a teaching on
there are
Orthodox Jewish people here who are in
support of the protest and they have
established this camp in part by keeping
police out and they keep out anyone who
is not a part of this protest they
recently ejected a an Israeli Army
soldier who had said that he he had been
in Gaza fighting for Israel tried to
engage the crowd and they tossed him out
as for the police presence I'll show you
why that's such a concern if you look
over there you can see that's a police
light pole it's a portable one they can
put up there's one at each end of the
street and that's in case police want to
come in here and sweep the area you can
see campus police in the background in
that car they they're a constant
presence but when they approach here the
students form a line and they do not
allow them to cross that line so they've
so far kept campus police out the
is that because this is a City
University the mayor Eric Adams who has
been critical of the protesters could
call in police and sweep this area and
that's what the students are concerned
about so far that hasn't happened but it
is the constant threat every day here at
this Camp okay thanks so much John John
hindan for us there at City University
in New York well we're going to go to
Phil LEL who joins us from Chapel Hill
Inc where local activists and supporters
will join University of North Carolina
students for a rally at their encampment
first of all can you just explain how
large that protest has has grown so far
there well you know in the last few
minutes actually it started to grow
fairly substantially and we're expecting
over the next hour two hours for
somewhere in the region of as many as
500 people according to organizers made
up of those who are here already also
activists also people from other
universities because this is being quite
heavily promoted on social media let me
just show you what's here now I mean
these people here this is not a spring
popup uh protest these people have been
here now since Friday they actually have
been given permission by the university
to stay here but there is one caveat and
that is they are not allowed to erect
tents because that then violates
University policy some students have got
around that got around the letter of the
rules by erecting the tents but not
putting the roofs on or they've put out
full blowup mattresses with pillows and
they're very much saying that they will
stay here for as long as they want and
there are three universities involved in
this you've got the University of North
Carolina here in Chapel Hill you've got
students at Juke University nearby and
North Carolina State University in
Raleigh and I'm going to bring in one of
the activists now Tamer uh Tamer thanks
very much for joining us uh if you move
position for me just explain to me first
of all what is it that you guys feel is
the end like what what would you want to
achieve we want to achieve more of a
communic uh Coalition building and
getting the word out we explain to the
University of North Carolina admissions
uh the administration our demands and
we've been very clear about them but we
were not listened we were not met as a
Palestinian American woman who is from
Gaza and who has lost over 350 people I
am tired we want to make an impact we
have people around the Raleigh Community
Chapel Community Greensboro everyone
coming around and saying divest divest
from supporting Israel products divest
from funding um Israel um like study
abroad divest from taxing from Israel
because because we can't get free uh
school or free healthare but Israel can
get all these things I for one as a
student I have student loans that I need
to pay and I always wonder what what am
I going to do with them if I'm not able
to have the same like opportunities as
you know Israel has like free healthare
and free um
schooling and you mentioned some of
those local universities but we're
seeing like scenes played out at
universities across the country what
kind of support are you drawing for them
and are you in touch with the other
universities yes we are we have our
national SJP um chats we are in touch
through social media and Instagram um we
work closely with our River Duke
University um and we also work with
North Carolina State University we are
despite all of our like you know
differences we work together to build
Coalition um we lean on each other we
help each other out we are we bring food
we provide supplies um something that
happened in the very first day that was
very momental is that we had Muslim
Students praying um our ritual prayers
we had Jewish Services it was um
Passover and the next following day it
was Setter so we were all engaging
together so change we need to start
changing the narrative that this
encampment is not anti-semitic we have
people who are from the triangle Jewish
voice for peace we have people who are
rabbis religious leaders who are also ad
advocating for um a ceasefire and for a
free Palestine because this is not just
a genocide that is going on for 100 days
these are kids like like I said I am
from pza I have families that are
affected and just doing this encampment
is just an example of if we can stay for
3 Days laying on the floor with silian
bugs and itchiness then we can extend
the same gratitude as people who are in
Rafa who are are not able to get any
form of Sanitation who are not able to
even eat not even to have a proper bread
these are the things that we need to
look for and to use as an example from
especially in the UNCC campus that
despite all the Privileges that are
happening in our campuses we can set
aside and Camp indoor outdoor sorry
thank you very much for that I really
appreciate it so that is the situation
here at Chapel Hill uh but as I say the
protest is expected to get underway in
around about 2 hours and up to 500
people expected here okay thanks so much
Phil Phil LEL there for us in North
Carolina make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer